projects/research.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: 'Research'
---

I'm currently working towards a Master's in Computer Science (with a Computer Engineering undergrad). To this end, I am doing research to use neural networks for malware detection. More and more I am finding that I absolutely love research - it is some of the most rewarding work I have ever done.

We have just published our first research paper and the code is on Github! I am beyond excited that we were able to present our work at NAECON.

There are honestly a lot of things I would change about that first paper. If I could rewrite it, I would tie in more sources, better present the results of the paper, more thoroughly test the networks, and overall re-word large portions (or all) of it.

At the same time, everyone starts somewhere and I'm glad to have been able to write a conference paper at all. I've learned so much that I can improve on for the future. The paper is available [here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8556657).

Since then, a LOT of work has been done to expand on that paper and I hope to publish a full journal article (or two) soon!

Because of funding rules, I can't post much information at the moment, but stay tuned!

Commit message:

update wording for research - pending more articles

projects/research.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: 'Research'
---

At UC, I was able to do a Bachelor's and a Master's of Science in Computer Engineering. For the thesis, did research on using neural networks for malware detection. I found that I absolutely love research - it is some of the most rewarding work I have ever done.

We have published our first research paper at NAECON and the code is on Github! I am beyond excited that we were able to present our work at NAECON.

There are honestly a lot of things I would change about that first paper. If I could rewrite it, I would tie in more sources, better present the results of the paper, more thoroughly test the networks, and overall re-word large portions (or all) of it.

At the same time, everyone starts somewhere and I'm glad to have been able to write a conference paper at all. I've learned so much that I can improve on for the future. The paper is available [here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8556657).

Since then, a LOT of work has been done to expand on that paper and I hope to publish a full journal article (or two) soon!

Because of funding rules, I can't post much information at the moment, but stay tuned!
